# Financial Forecasting and Machine Learning

# Project Overview

  The purpose of this document is to introduce users to the basic concepts of Financial Planning and Analysis and the opportunities for incorporating Machine Learning into the FP&A process. Corporate finance teams across industries spend copious amounts of time generating financial forecasts for internal budgeting and operational planning. The accuracy of these forecasts is paramount to enable companies to adjust strategy and operations in order to outperform or reshape future outcomes. Leveraging Machine Learning in the FP&A process helps companies achieve more reliable forecasting, a deeper understanding of business drivers and KPIs, and ultimately more efficient company operations and strategy. 
  
# Value Proposition

What benefits are realized from incorporating Machine Learning into the FP&A process?
1. *Understanding the drivers of KPIs*
    * For example, modeling the relationship of different variables [such as Number of Users] and how they affect a KPI [such as Revenue Generated] can help determine the future actions related to those variables. 
2. *Reliable and Accurate Forecasts*
    * Remove bias from Financial Planning and rely on data-driven forecasting
3. *Automable and Tunable*
    * Because the Forecasts are generated by an alogirthm, little interaction is necessary to produce regularly scheduled forecasts.


# Literature and Current Landscape

* [Use case identified at the end of 2018 by FPA-trends.com](https://fpa-trends.com/article/artificial-intelligence-machine-learning-fpa-time-has-come)
* [Financial Forecasting @ Uber](https://eng.uber.com/transforming-financial-forecasting-machine-learning/)
* [Benefits of Leveraging ML in FP&A](https://scholar.harvard.edu/linh/financial-forecasting-using-machine-learning)

# View the Notebooks
* [Exploratory Analysis](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1eT3OE2lK8XUQ1d8VRih0TbEgXAsrhNvf?usp=sharing)
* Forecasting with Prophet

### *Data Selection Note*
* Selected Energy Consumption Dataset because it mimicks sales data given the daily recordings, seasonality, and trends. 
* We can apply this framework in the same way to Financial Datasets
